BACKEND_IMPLEMENTATION.md, before:

# Spring Boot Backend Implementation Complete

## Overview

The Spring Boot backend for the SolarManExcel2DB UI has been successfully implemented according to the technical specifications in `TECH_SPEC_UI.md`. The backend provides REST API endpoints for file uploading, data processing, and database operations.

## Project Structure

```
backend/
├── src/main/java/com/loots/solarmanui/
│   ├── SolarManUiApplication.java          # Main Spring Boot application
│   ├── controller/
│   │   ├── FileUploadController.java       # File upload endpoints
│   │   ├── DatabaseController.java         # Database status endpoints
│   │   └── ImportController.java           # Data import endpoints
│   ├── service/
│   │   ├── ExcelProcessingService.java     # Excel parsing logic
│   │   ├── DatabaseService.java            # Database operations
│   │   └── ImportService.java              # Data import operations
│   ├── model/
│   │   ├── DatabaseStatus.java             # Database status model
│   │   ├── ImportResult.java               # Import result model
│   │   ├── SolarManRecord.java             # SolarMan data entity
│   │   ├── TshwaneRecord.java              # Tshwane data entity
│   │   └── LatestRecords.java              # Latest record timestamps
│   └── config/
│       └── WebConfig.java                  # CORS configuration
├── src/main/resources/
│   └── application.properties              # Application configuration
└── pom.xml                                # Maven dependencies
```

## REST API Endpoints

### File Upload API (`/api/upload`)
- `POST /api/upload/solarman` - Upload and preview SolarMan Excel files
- `POST /api/upload/tshwane` - Upload and preview Tshwane Excel files

### Database API (`/api/database`)
- `GET /api/database/status` - Check database connectivity status
- `GET /api/database/latest-records` - Get latest record timestamps
- `POST /api/database/configure` - Configure database credentials

### Import API (`/api/import`)
- `POST /api/import/solarman` - Import SolarMan data to database
- `POST /api/import/tshwane` - Import Tshwane data to database
- `GET /api/import/error-logs` - Get import error logs
- `DELETE /api/import/error-logs` - Clear error logs

## Key Features Implemented

### Excel Processing
- ✅ Refactored existing Excel parsing logic from `SolarManExcel2DB.java` and `TshwaneElectricityReader.java`
- ✅ Column validation for SolarMan files (12 expected columns)
- ✅ Multiple date format parsing support
- ✅ Safe cell value extraction with default values
- ✅ Data filtering (SolarMan records after 2020-01-01)

### Database Operations
- ✅ Connection status checking with detailed error messages
- ✅ Latest record timestamp retrieval
- ✅ UPSERT operations with ON CONFLICT handling
- ✅ Environment variable configuration (`DB_USER`, `DB_PASSWORD`)

### Data Import
- ✅ Batch processing with transaction management
- ✅ Error logging and collection
- ✅ Import result tracking (inserted/updated counts, date ranges)
- ✅ Graceful error handling

### Configuration
- ✅ CORS enabled for Angular frontend (localhost:4200)
- ✅ File upload limits (10MB)
- ✅ PostgreSQL connection configuration
- ✅ Spring Boot 3.2.x with Java 11

## Technology Stack

- **Spring Boot 3.2.2** - Web framework and dependency injection
- **Spring Data JPA** - Database abstraction layer
- **Apache POI 4.1.1** - Excel file processing
- **PostgreSQL Driver 42.7.3** - Database connectivity
- **Maven** - Build and dependency management

## Development Commands

### Compile and Build
```bash
cd backend
mvn clean compile          # Compile only
mvn clean package          # Build JAR with dependencies
```

### Run Development Server
```bash
mvn spring-boot:run        # Start on port 8080
```

### Database Requirements
- PostgreSQL running on localhost:5432
- Database: `LOOTS`
- Environment variables: `DB_USER`, `DB_PASSWORD`
- Tables: `loots_inverter`, `tshwane_electricity`

## Integration with Existing Code

The Spring Boot backend successfully refactors and preserves all core functionality from the existing Java utilities:

- **SolarManExcel2DB.java** → `ExcelProcessingService.processSolarManFile()`
- **TshwaneElectricityReader.java** → `ExcelProcessingService.processTshwaneFile()`
- **Database UPSERT logic** → `ImportService.importSolarManData()` / `importTshwaneData()`
- **Utility methods** → Preserved in service classes with identical behavior

## Next Steps

1. **Frontend Development**: Create Angular 20 frontend as specified in `TECH_SPEC_UI.md`
2. **Testing**: Add unit tests for service classes and integration tests for REST endpoints
3. **Production Deployment**: Configure production database settings and static resource serving
4. **Frontend Integration**: Build and serve Angular app from Spring Boot static resources

The backend is now ready for integration with the Angular frontend and provides all the REST endpoints needed for the complete SolarManExcel2DB UI application.

Commit message:

Documentation housekeeping: update timestamps, version references, and status sections
- Updated timestamps to January 2026 in README.md, DOCKER_KUBERNETES_DEPLOYMENT.md, and grafana/README.md
- Standardized Angular version references from 20 to 20.3 across all docs
- Standardized Node.js requirement to 18+ (was inconsistent 18+/20+)
- Updated copyright year to 2024-2026 in footer
- Updated CLAUDE.md to reflect completed Web UI v1.1 (not future development)
- Updated BACKEND_IMPLEMENTATION.md and FRONTEND_README.md to show completed integration status
- Added legacy notice to README-oldCLI.md
- Updated DEPLOYMENT_RESULTS.md deployment date to December 10, 2025 (v1.1)
- Verified test counts remain accurate: 56 backend tests, 29 frontend tests

Co-Authored-By: Warp <agent@warp.dev>

BACKEND_IMPLEMENTATION.md, after:

# Spring Boot Backend Implementation Complete

## Overview

The Spring Boot backend for the SolarManExcel2DB UI has been successfully implemented according to the technical specifications in `TECH_SPEC_UI.md`. The backend provides REST API endpoints for file uploading, data processing, and database operations.

## Project Structure

```
backend/
├── src/main/java/com/loots/solarmanui/
│   ├── SolarManUiApplication.java          # Main Spring Boot application
│   ├── controller/
│   │   ├── FileUploadController.java       # File upload endpoints
│   │   ├── DatabaseController.java         # Database status endpoints
│   │   └── ImportController.java           # Data import endpoints
│   ├── service/
│   │   ├── ExcelProcessingService.java     # Excel parsing logic
│   │   ├── DatabaseService.java            # Database operations
│   │   └── ImportService.java              # Data import operations
│   ├── model/
│   │   ├── DatabaseStatus.java             # Database status model
│   │   ├── ImportResult.java               # Import result model
│   │   ├── SolarManRecord.java             # SolarMan data entity
│   │   ├── TshwaneRecord.java              # Tshwane data entity
│   │   └── LatestRecords.java              # Latest record timestamps
│   └── config/
│       └── WebConfig.java                  # CORS configuration
├── src/main/resources/
│   └── application.properties              # Application configuration
└── pom.xml                                # Maven dependencies
```

## REST API Endpoints

### File Upload API (`/api/upload`)
- `POST /api/upload/solarman` - Upload and preview SolarMan Excel files
- `POST /api/upload/tshwane` - Upload and preview Tshwane Excel files

### Database API (`/api/database`)
- `GET /api/database/status` - Check database connectivity status
- `GET /api/database/latest-records` - Get latest record timestamps
- `POST /api/database/configure` - Configure database credentials

### Import API (`/api/import`)
- `POST /api/import/solarman` - Import SolarMan data to database
- `POST /api/import/tshwane` - Import Tshwane data to database
- `GET /api/import/error-logs` - Get import error logs
- `DELETE /api/import/error-logs` - Clear error logs

## Key Features Implemented

### Excel Processing
- ✅ Refactored existing Excel parsing logic from `SolarManExcel2DB.java` and `TshwaneElectricityReader.java`
- ✅ Column validation for SolarMan files (12 expected columns)
- ✅ Multiple date format parsing support
- ✅ Safe cell value extraction with default values
- ✅ Data filtering (SolarMan records after 2020-01-01)

### Database Operations
- ✅ Connection status checking with detailed error messages
- ✅ Latest record timestamp retrieval
- ✅ UPSERT operations with ON CONFLICT handling
- ✅ Environment variable configuration (`DB_USER`, `DB_PASSWORD`)

### Data Import
- ✅ Batch processing with transaction management
- ✅ Error logging and collection
- ✅ Import result tracking (inserted/updated counts, date ranges)
- ✅ Graceful error handling

### Configuration
- ✅ CORS enabled for Angular frontend (localhost:4200)
- ✅ File upload limits (10MB)
- ✅ PostgreSQL connection configuration
- ✅ Spring Boot 3.2.x with Java 11

## Technology Stack

- **Spring Boot 3.2.2** - Web framework and dependency injection
- **Spring Data JPA** - Database abstraction layer
- **Apache POI 4.1.1** - Excel file processing
- **PostgreSQL Driver 42.7.3** - Database connectivity
- **Maven** - Build and dependency management

## Development Commands

### Compile and Build
```bash
cd backend
mvn clean compile          # Compile only
mvn clean package          # Build JAR with dependencies
```

### Run Development Server
```bash
mvn spring-boot:run        # Start on port 8080
```

### Database Requirements
- PostgreSQL running on localhost:5432
- Database: `LOOTS`
- Environment variables: `DB_USER`, `DB_PASSWORD`
- Tables: `loots_inverter`, `tshwane_electricity`

## Integration with Existing Code

The Spring Boot backend successfully refactors and preserves all core functionality from the existing Java utilities:

- **SolarManExcel2DB.java** → `ExcelProcessingService.processSolarManFile()`
- **TshwaneElectricityReader.java** → `ExcelProcessingService.processTshwaneFile()`
- **Database UPSERT logic** → `ImportService.importSolarManData()` / `importTshwaneData()`
- **Utility methods** → Preserved in service classes with identical behavior

## ✅ Current Status

1. **Frontend Development**: ✅ Complete - Angular 20.3 frontend fully implemented with routing, production charts, and auto-refresh
2. **Testing**: ✅ Complete - 56 backend tests and 29 frontend tests all passing
3. **Production Deployment**: ✅ Complete - Kubernetes deployment with Rancher Desktop configured
4. **Frontend Integration**: ✅ Complete - Angular app builds and serves from Spring Boot static resources

The backend is fully integrated with the Angular 20.3 frontend and provides all REST endpoints for the complete SolarManExcel2DB UI application v1.1.
