README-oldCLI.md, before:

# SolarManExcel2DB

A Java utility for importing solar power generation data from SolarMan Excel exports into a PostgreSQL database.

## Overview

This utility reads an Excel file exported from SolarMan solar power monitoring system and inserts the data into a PostgreSQL database table. It captures various metrics including:

- Production power
- Consumption power
- Grid power
- Purchase power
- Feed-in values
- Battery power
- Charging power
- Discharging power
- State of Charge (SoC)

The application validates the Excel file format and only processes data with timestamps after January 1, 2020.

## Prerequisites

- Java 11 or higher
- Maven
- PostgreSQL database (already set up with `/Users/danieloots/LOOTS_PG/loots_pg.sh`)
- Environment variables for database credentials:
  - `DB_USER`: PostgreSQL username
  - `DB_PASSWORD`: PostgreSQL password

## Database

This utility uses the existing `loots_inverter` table in the PostgreSQL database that is started with:
```
/Users/danieloots/LOOTS_PG/loots_pg.sh
```

The default connection string is:
```
jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/LOOTS
```

## Building

Build the application using Maven:

```bash
mvn clean package
```

This will create an executable JAR file with all dependencies included.

## Usage

1. Set the required environment variables:

```bash
export DB_USER=your_database_username
export DB_PASSWORD=your_database_password
```

2. Run the application with the path to your Excel file:

```bash
java -jar target/SolarManExcel2DB-1.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar /path/to/your/solarman_export.xlsx
```

## Configuration

The application connects to a PostgreSQL database at `jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/LOOTS`. If you need to change this, modify the `DB_URL` constant in the `SolarManExcel2DB.java` file and rebuild.

Commit message:

Documentation housekeeping: update timestamps, version references, and status sections
- Updated timestamps to January 2026 in README.md, DOCKER_KUBERNETES_DEPLOYMENT.md, and grafana/README.md
- Standardized Angular version references from 20 to 20.3 across all docs
- Standardized Node.js requirement to 18+ (was inconsistent 18+/20+)
- Updated copyright year to 2024-2026 in footer
- Updated CLAUDE.md to reflect completed Web UI v1.1 (not future development)
- Updated BACKEND_IMPLEMENTATION.md and FRONTEND_README.md to show completed integration status
- Added legacy notice to README-oldCLI.md
- Updated DEPLOYMENT_RESULTS.md deployment date to December 10, 2025 (v1.1)
- Verified test counts remain accurate: 56 backend tests, 29 frontend tests

Co-Authored-By: Warp <agent@warp.dev>

README-oldCLI.md, after:

# SolarManExcel2DB - Legacy CLI Documentation

> **Note**: This document covers the original command-line interface. For the current Web UI (v1.1) with Angular frontend and production visualization, see [README.md](README.md) or [WARP.md](WARP.md).

A Java utility for importing solar power generation data from SolarMan Excel exports into a PostgreSQL database.

## Overview

This utility reads an Excel file exported from SolarMan solar power monitoring system and inserts the data into a PostgreSQL database table. It captures various metrics including:

- Production power
- Consumption power
- Grid power
- Purchase power
- Feed-in values
- Battery power
- Charging power
- Discharging power
- State of Charge (SoC)

The application validates the Excel file format and only processes data with timestamps after January 1, 2020.

## Prerequisites

- Java 11 or higher
- Maven
- PostgreSQL database (already set up with `/Users/danieloots/LOOTS_PG/loots_pg.sh`)
- Environment variables for database credentials:
  - `DB_USER`: PostgreSQL username
  - `DB_PASSWORD`: PostgreSQL password

## Database

This utility uses the existing `loots_inverter` table in the PostgreSQL database that is started with:
```
/Users/danieloots/LOOTS_PG/loots_pg.sh
```

The default connection string is:
```
jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/LOOTS
```

## Building

Build the application using Maven:

```bash
mvn clean package
```

This will create an executable JAR file with all dependencies included.

## Usage

1. Set the required environment variables:

```bash
export DB_USER=your_database_username
export DB_PASSWORD=your_database_password
```

2. Run the application with the path to your Excel file:

```bash
java -jar target/SolarManExcel2DB-1.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar /path/to/your/solarman_export.xlsx
```

## Configuration

The application connects to a PostgreSQL database at `jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/LOOTS`. If you need to change this, modify the `DB_URL` constant in the `SolarManExcel2DB.java` file and rebuild.
